>> Nina Zakharenko: We talked
about simple loops yesterday.
We talked about for loops,
how loop over each item in a list.
List comprehensions are one of those
incredible features of Python that I think
have been making their way into other
programming languages slowly over time.
They let you take kind of a for
loop and condense it down into just
one statement in a way that's
actually pretty readable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
we'll start with list comprehensions.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
say I had my list of names.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
just a list of three items.
Everyone who's typing along,
you can use whatever names you want.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Earlier,
I wanted to build a new list that
had maybe all the lowercase names in it,
right?
So I know that if I say, string .lower,
it'll give me the lowercase.
If I say string.upper,
it will give me the uppercase.
Okay, let's say I wanted
to do uppercase names,
let's say I wanted to shout them, right?
Reading them and shouting, you know that
these names are kind of really important.
So before, I would make my
list of uppercase names and
I would go through in a for loop, right?
for name in names.
I would say that the upper_case_name
would be equal to name.upper().
And then what action would I need
to take next to build up my list of
upper_names with these values?
How do we add to the end of a list?
>> Speaker 2: Append.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Append, so
I would say upper_names.append,
and my upper_case_name.
Okay, if we look in our upper_names now,
we'll see that we've
looped through this list,
we've taken some action on it, right, but,
>> Nina Zakharenko: This is a lot of code,
and it's a pretty common
programming paradigm.
We do this type of
programming all the time.
And so Python came up with
a really handy shortcut for it.
To do a list comprehension, you start with
the list syntax, so the square brackets.
And then as your kind of
getting used to these,
I find that the order
really trips people up.
And so
I tend to basically write mine backwards.
I think about, what do I wanna loop over,
and I type that first.
So what were we looping
over in our for-loop?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
so I would say, for
name in names,
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
that's the second half of
our list comprehension.
Now, move your cursor
back to the beginning and
place it right to the right side
of that first opening bracket.
The first part of the list comprehension
is the action that we want to take.
So what was I doing with my
name in the previous example?
>> Speaker 2: Uppercase.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
I was making it uppercase.
So here, on the left-hand side,
I would say name.upper().
>> Nina Zakharenko: What result
do we get when we run this?
>> Speaker 2: It lists the uppercase and
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's right,
a list of uppercase names.
Pretty useful, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's say
we wanted to build a list of,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Square's, right?
What function can we use in Python to
generate a list of number's in a sequence?
>> Speaker 2: Range.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Range, right.
So a quick recap of range.
If we call range without doing
any sort of looping over it,
we'll see this kind of range object,
it's because each object in it is
generated on the fly,
which is great, right?
It's great for performance.
It's great for memory.
As we're learning,
if we want a peak inside of range,
just maybe we forget the syntax.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
just a quick note here for
everyone who's not paying attention.
Don't call range on a huge
list of numbers and
call list around it cuz Nina told you so.
Cuz that is not what I'm saying, okay?
So if we want to peek inside of a range,
we can call list on it, right?
So range with just one number will go
up to that number, but not inclusive.
So exclusive.
If we call range with two numbers,
this first number is the starting number,
the range will be inclusive
of the starting number,
exclusive of the ending number.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
the third argument to range is a step.
So if I wanted to go through all
the even numbers, or I'm sorry,
not all the even numbers.
If I wanted to go from 1 to 4 and
add 2 each time, I would get 1 and 3.
So that's how range works.
Let's say I wanted to
make a list comprehension
that went through all of
the numbers from 0 to 5 and
print it out, the square.
So I would say, for num in range,
if I wanted the numbers from 0 to 5,
what value would I need to put in range?
>> Speaker 2: 6.
>> Nina Zakharenko: 6, okay, so
this is what we're going to loop
over in our list comprehension.
And then moving back to
the start of the line.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Windows users, I don't
know, Mac users, Ctrl+A might help you get
your line to the start, or
your cursor to the start of the line.
And if I wanted to do the scores,
I would just say, num for num.
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's
quickly all of our squares.
We can return a list of any of the other
types that we've talked about.
In our first example, we saw strings.
In our second example, we saw a number.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's take a look
at a more complicated data type.
Let's say I wanted to
return a list of tuples,
and,
>> Nina Zakharenko: The way that I would
do that, so I have names variable here,
I would make my list comprehension.
I'm gonna loop over the name in names.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
what I want to return is a tuple.
So I'm gonna put those
parentheses around it.
I want a tuple that has
the string length in it, for
example, along with
the length of the name.
How do we get the length of a string?
>> Speaker 2: With length, len.
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's right.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Don't forget
an extra parenthesis here.
And that would get the length of my name.
So any variable that's on the right
side of this for statement,
that's available for us to use in
the left side of this equation.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yesterday we used
tuple unpacking to loop through two items
at once, for example,
if we were looping over a list of tuples.
So, okay, call this list comprehension,
I get the word length followed
by the length of each string.
One last thing I wanna show with split and
join, I've shown you kind of f strings,
right?
So let's say the name is Nina, and
my f string, starts with an f, it can say,
The name is, followed by .
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I wanted
to do the same thing for
a list of names and print them out
in a comma separating string,
I can do that with a join, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if I just had kind of my one string here,
it'd be kind of funky,
it's because it's not a list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can pass
a list comprehension into join, right?
Join takes a list.
So I can say, for name in names,
like I did before.
And I can just go with the right,
put my cursor to the right of that
opening bracket, and I can put an f
string in here and say, name is name.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we're just
putting some of these pieces together.